Let's talk a little bit
about accessibility.
And I think I mentioned this
earlier in the course, which is,
my team we care a lot about accessibility,
and we thought we were doing
the right thing, we didn't realize
that our build process was broken.
Broken is a strong word.
It was issuing warnings,
overwhelmingly to our credit,
mostly accessible,
it didn't take a lot to get it into shape.
But we had lint issues around
the accessibility stuff that were just
swallowed cuz they were
erroring into the console and
weren't breaking the build, right?
And this is one of those things which is
like, we joke that the build process is
supposed to stop you on a Friday
afternoon when you're lazy, but
even in well-meaning situations,
it just didn't know, right?
Cuz you just didn't think to run,
from the command line,
a build process that broke
would have caught it, right?
And so you can do it,
there's lots of different ways to do it.
We have in a Svelte app, there's
this thing called Svelte check which
will tell you, but
you can also have tests, right?
And the tests are super interesting cuz
you could also seek to have some nuance
around what exactly is going
on in this case, right?
Or if we're trying to get certain ones and
work through it over time, and
you could start them all with to-dues for
every component and
start to uncheck them over time.
I think you get a little more granularity
with the kinda programming model that
comes with unit tests versus some
other things, but it all kinda works.
But the cool thing,
what I'm gonna show you here, and
this goes to this
maintainability over time.
And so you don't have this thing where all
of a sudden, some big government agency
wants to use your product and
they won't because you're not accessible.
You can basically say, hey,
our tests will fail, yes,
you should still go through
with a screen reader.
Sure, sure, sure.
But our test will fail if we
have known violations, right?
That is one of those things,
automated nature of all these things
keep your code base healthy over time.
There is a library, until you've probably
heard it before, called aXe, it's a-X-e.
And what you can do with that
is basically it'll audit
the known checks in just
the way you wrote your code.
>> You said aXe was an npm package?
>> aXe is an npm package.
It is also a browser extension.
It has lots of things that you can do to
kinda do static analysis of your code.
In this case-
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> What's that?
>> You mean aXe core?
>> aXe core.
>> [LAUGH] I couldn't find x, so.
>> Yeah, that was probably taken.
In this case we'll use just x
because we're building a test suite.
Again, this is one option, we're currently
in the point of component testing, so
I felt like we can do it in here.
Could you do it from
your browser based test?
You could.
Could you do it just as a tool that does
a static analysis of the entire code base?
You also could.
Those are a little bit trickier because
the Chrome extension, for instance,
you gotta be using your browser.
The stack analysis a lot of
time is an all or nothing or
you have to put comments here.
Like I kinda said in the preamble to this,
if you're just doing the kind of like,
hey, we just found out we gotta do this,
you can start by layering the tests with
a to-do and start to slowly get your code
base over time where you need to go.
What strategy is right for you depends
on the code base, but let's look at
one common way to deal with this, and
then you can kind of apply it as need be.
The kind of bonus exercise
that we kinda just briefly
talked about the other
day was this ability to,
if you look at the browser here,
I've got just a silly,
all the inputs, and
they change and stuff like that.
Everything is great.
And what we want to do is make sure that
there are no obvious violations there.
And this is super easy to do.
And what we wanna have happen
is mount the component and
check to see,
do we have any violations, right?
And so for instance,
I've got this ObstacleCourse.
We'll kinda do the normal, And
I think where this is also super powerful,
especially for a component test,
is if you're building a design system for
instance, right, where you've got
these individual components, right?
You wanna run these checks.
A lot of times you're working
on a design system, sure or
maybe you have a storybook,
right, or something like that.
But you don't really have an app, right?
You have a collection of pieces of
user interface and different things.
And so the idea that you could have
the entire suite of the things and
run through them all, render them, and
do the accessibility check, have tests
that break on every single build,
mean that you're gonna ship
a design system that is accessible.
So let's go and we'll pull that in.
And we've got this render that
we've been using the whole time.
And we'll pull in the ObstacleCourse.
Like I said,
it's just a component in this case.
One of the cool things, and
again, we're using vitest, but
jest-axe will work just fine.
There's a plugin called jest-axe that we
can use, and we'll pull that in as well.
So jest-axe.
And it only has two things that exports.
One is, axe,
which will run the analysis
on the component.
And then there is a helpful
matcher in this case that we
can use with expect to have no violations,
right?
I think that the same way that
JSDOM has that slash extend expect,
or expect extend, whichever one.
I did the wrong one the first time,
I switched it and
I'll never remember because you do it once
in a code base there the entire time.
We can go peek at some point,
literally, instead of actually.
But you can also do it globally as well,
but depending on what you have,
we'll just do it the old fashioned way.
Expect, and then we can extend that.
And I point this out cuz also if
there are common things that you
want better than aXe in this world,
you could write
your own additional matchers that
are unique to your code base as well.
There's something you've commonly find
yourself doing given the data structure
that you have or something.
It's really hard to invent fake
versions of why you would need it.
But if there's some repeated thing
you wanna actually have expect and
then some very unique to your application,
you can absolutely do that.
And we'll give it the toHaveNoViolations,
right?
So now that is available as well.
Render has a lot of things,
when we were playing with the types.
You can actually get the container,
you can get the actual result,
the base element, so on and so forth.
In this case, we'll grab the container.
I could also probably grab the entire
screen too, now that I think about it, but
we haven't done this one yet.
So let's take a look, countainer.
I love TypeScript.
The fact that I got red squiggly line and
I didn't find out though that was
undefined later is the best thing.
The number of times that has saved me
from just making a silly mistake has
been super helpful.
And then the results is
accessible return a promise.
I gotta make this an async function.
And so
we can basically take this DOM really,
and pass it in and say cool,
I go ahead and, Do your analysis.
Where have I made boo boos, right?
And this one, I think is actually fine,
much to my surprise, but we'll go and
create an issue in a second as well.
And then basically,
all you need to do at this point,
toHaveNoViolations, maybe
we'll even spell result right.
And we won't put a dot at the end, right?
And now I should be able to run this test.
And let's see, [SOUND] expected.
No, wait.
This is why you live
code in front of people,
cuz then they catch errors for you.
It's like peer programming but
even bigger.
So in this case we have no violations.
So let's go create one just for funsies.
[LAUGH] Different versions of fun for
different people, I guess.
>> What defines a violation for
this specific-
>> Anything that breaks one of
the heuristics.
I'm going to do the one I accidentally
do all the time, [LAUGH] which is input
with no label or forgetting the HTML4 or
something along those lines, right?
That would be like, hey, the screen
reader is not gonna be able to read this.
>> Baseline, I don't know if you can
configure what rule set you can use.
>> I don't know cuz I
usually use the standard one.
I would imagine your Twitter
should be able to- [CROSSTALK]
>> Uses one AA versus AAA.
>> Yeah,
AAA is I think the one we're aiming for.
>> Yeah.
>> This will get you
most of the way there,
you should still be testing with a screen
reader and stuff like that as well.
Cool, and so let's go ahead,
let's just go in to the index.tsx, and
we'll go and we'll just like, I don't
know, we'll give ourselves a bonus.
You know what?
Go ahead and I was like, yeah,
I'll just make an input field where
you'll type, I'll have it on change.
Everything's great, life will go on.
Code, code, code, code,
moving along, right?
We can go in here,
we'll run that test again.
Do this save and we'll grab the right one.
We'll see in a second.
It's interesting that that one passes for
reasons I don't totally understand.
Let's toss it and put it in there.
All right, so that one, for some reason.
I have a label.
>> You just put that back.
>> I put it back.
But here we have an input field where
the browser couldn't figure it out.
It could have been the form tag or
maybe we were in a form tag,
unclear exactly why that one did work,
did pass the test.
But in this case, just having one,
that didn't have one,
got me to the point where it gives you
basically here where your issue is.
And you could see there's
a long list of things,
I wonder if I accidentally appeased
one of these in the implementation.
But the nice part is, if you don't
have tooling like this, it becomes
an issue of hoping that someone catches
that one input field in a code review.
And if you are a good person and you have
tiny little PRs that are hyper focused on
one thing, then maybe that code
reviews will work for you.
If you have that one where you're
apologizing to your teammates during stand
up, for the size of the PR cuz it's
47 files and 3000 lines of code,
the chance that you're gonna miss
one of these is pretty strong.
The best part about this is because
it's built into a unit test process.
We already have that build script.
We'll break the build.
You get immediate feedback, right?
And we'll look at ways that you can get
immediate feedback before you even get to
the build process a little bit later.
But the idea is we're building the systems
that help us make good choices,
because like I said, I have a team
that deeply cares about this, and
we messed up cuz I didn't even realize.
Yeah, that issue was like,
the passing doesn't necessarily
mean that things are good,
it just means that we weren't blowing
up the build because of an accident.
Lots of things were blowing up the build,
just not that.
And so kind of verifying these things and
building these systems, we'll never have
the issue again, because the build
will break if it ever comes up again.
And that will help us to kind of get
to the point where we don't drift
too far off the course.